Title: 300 Words for 2013-04-11
Author: George Sudarkoff

My childhood I spent in a tiny soviet military city Nakhodka. My dad served on a Navy/Border patrol base located on the age of the city. I rarely seen him in the first years of my life - he was away for 6 months at a time. I remember distinctly how every time he would come home from a trip, it'll take me days before I start to recognize him as a relative. I think partly because of that we have never really connected. Another reason was that we never discussed difficult topics in my family. Things were just "understood" or so everybody thought. So many issues were never really resolved. To this day I am surprised my parents stayed together (and still are) for so many decades.

One of the benefits of growing in a small remote military city was that even though it was a proper city with a well developed public transportation and everything, the nature was everywhere around us. The city was stretching around a long and wavy bay, so although the population was only maybe about 150 thousand people at most, it would take you three hours to get from one end of the city to the opposite by bus. But you could walk across it in the narrow part in under an hour or less. Another reason the nature was everywhere was because the terrain was very hilly. So the streets were snaking around hills with most building clinging to the streets leaving the hills undeveloped.

Growing up I took full advantage of that nature. We were playing in the woods, at the abandoned oil/coal refinery and on a massive lake that was surrounded by a marsh (which produced unbelievable amounts of mosquitoes in the early summer). We were building underground forts, learning how to build stable structures, how to use a hammer and an axe. We practiced starting fires in the woods almost every day and we ever rock climbed with improvised gear from time to time (surprisingly, we didn't even have any close calls let alone serious injuries). Although, one small boy once fell from a Tyrolean traverse we left unattended in the woods and broke his arm. I remember his mother was furious with me (I was the one who rigged that traverse).

The lake was another source of entertainment for us. The was a storage facility of a military base between the abandoned coal plant and the lake and for whatever purpose those guys were draining the march and deepening the lake at that spot. It was one of our favorite spots for swimming because it was only a couple of minutes of walking from my home. I was never a good swimmer, so I was sheepish, but one guy once sweamt all the way across that lake. Which was probably a mile in diameter (if my child memories to be trusted).
