Once, when I was in high school, my friend and I - we were both interested in chemistry (that is to say, making things that go boom!) - set on a journey to discover a perfect fireworks formula. Through folk stories that teenage boys pass from generation to generation, we knew that magnesium mixed with potassium permanganate is just the stuff to start with. By that point in our explosive studies/discoveries? We probably have already had some experience with the mixture and knew how to acquire the necessary materials.

My friend’s family owned a garage made out of corrugated steel. The type that many people spontaneously erected all around our urban neighborhoods at the time. The garages were stuck in clusters here and there creating a small heaven for teenage boys where they could hide and plot.

So we gathered the implements in my friend’s garage, closed the door and proceeded with our experiments. We started by making a series of paper pipes about half an inch in diameter and nine inches or so in length out of some old newspapers soaked in silitra(?). When paper treated that way dries out, it acquires a few magical properties. First of all, if lit on fire, it burns with a mindboggling speed producing a ton of noxious smoke in the process. The idea was that treated that way, the tubes will not pose an obstruction to our ultimate fireworks mixture we planned to fill the tubes with.

Our first couple of tries were somewhat successful, but not quite to our expectations. So we experimented with the mixture in small scale until we got the proportions right - it was burning fast and bright and was producing a spectacular shower of sparks - something we were aiming for.

The next task was to fill the tubes and do some final testing.

Now, here I should take a break from the story and mention that we grew in a tightly knit military community. Our dads were all serving on the same military base. And we were not strangers to weapons, explosives and such. We knew our safety and had a healthy respect for the destructive force of an explosive combustion.

We tightly filled the first tube with our mix and lit it in fire. Against our expectations, the shower of sparks did not follow. We concluded that the mixture was compressed too much and starved of the oxygen as a result. So we filled the second tube loosely and lid it on fire. But because of the previous dud, we got careless and my friend was holding the tube in his hand. What followed was not a shower of sparks. Nor was it another dud. Instead, there was a skull splitting boom and flash of light that permanently imprinted our skeletons on the wall of the violently shaking but still standing in one piece corrugated steel garage. When our gifts of sight, hearing and smell returned, we sworned to never touch another explosive ever again. Ever! Our resolve lasted for a week.