# Interviewing Engineers

I've been on both sides of the technical interview process for over two decades now - most recently just a couple of weeks ago - and I have a few thoughts I wanted to share.

## Tips for the interviewEE

**Talk** Talk a lot and do not stop. The more you talk, the more likely it is you're talking about somithing you're very familiar with. And the less time the interviewER has to quiz you about things you are not familiar with.

But don't ramble. Rambling invites interruptions, corrections and requests for clarification from the interiviewER ("— What the hell are you talking about, man? That's not what I was asking about. Let me rephrase the question.") Rambling also looks bad - you wouldn't be rambling about something you have a lot of experience with.

**Practice** Of course, if you want to be able to talk for hours about your favorite topics, you'll need to practice a lot. Have a friendly banter with colleagues, go to conferences and read a lot.

If you're going to be asked to write code on the whiteboard, you should practice that too. It's different from coding on a computer, so a little bit of practice will help.

**Be honest** If your interviewER is good, she won't let you talk about your favorite topics unchecked. Sooner or later you'll be asked about a subject you have no experience with. Be honest and say so. Trust me, if your interviewER is asking you a question, she most probably knows the subject pretty well and she'll be able to tell whether you're winging it. Just say — "I don't know the answer to this question, but…"

**Think** "…but let me think for a second and see if I can come up with an answer."

There is a tendency to treat a technical interview as a quiz: "have you ever used blah?", "what's the system call for blah?" Sure, some companies and interviewERs do that, but you probably don't want to work for them anyway. And the ability to come up with an answer to a novel problem is far more valuable than having previous experience with a particular area.

Don't be a fool, though, and learn the basics well. What's the Big-O of the quick-sort? Worst case?

## Tips for the interviewER

**Be nice** Being an interviewEE is a stressful job. The purpose of the technical interview is not to show your superiority, it's to assess the skills of the person you're interviewing. If the job will require writing code under the gun, then by all means, stress and intimidate the interviewEE. Otherwise, make every effort to create a relaxed and pleasant atmosphere. Stress narrows your vision, creativity requires a playful and relaxed atmosphere.

**Be prepared** So ofter companies have no clear understanding of the requirements for the position they are trying to fill. Everybody suffers as a result. The interviewERs are confused about what to ask and how to assest the skills ("He has no idea what `if [[ $? -eq 0 ]]` means, we can't hire him for the Jr. Visual Basic position!"). The interviewEEs get random, disjointed and sometimes repeating questions. Talk to other interviewERs ahead of time, make sure you have a common understanding and a strategy for the interview.

Interviewing people is a skill. Just because you're an awesome engineer yourself, doesn't mean you know how to assess other engineers' abilities. Read a book, take a class. Don't try to wing it - it's disrespectful to everybody involved and leads to poor results.

The best (both challenging and rewarding) technical interview I've ever had was at Amazon. It was a full-day interview - I've seen at least six people that day. And each interviewER was building on the subjects covered by a previous interviewER. There was some designing, some coding, and a lot of talking about the former two.

**Listen** Do not interrupt unless necessary. Give interviewEE a chance to explain themselves. If it sounds like the interviewEE is going in the wrong direction or you're not sure you understand the answer (or even think the answer is incorrect) - ask a clarifying question, do not assume the worst automatically. Ask questions with the intention of understanding, not sinking the interviewEE.

**Keep an open mind** Would you rather have a team of engineers with diverse experience, combined covering a vast amount of knowledge? Or would you prefer to work with with a bunch of clones of yourself? Do not structure your interview as a quiz. Allow an interviewEE to show you what they've got. They might not have an answer to the exact question you're asking, but maybe they have a better solution. Talk about things, see how your interviewEE thinks.
