# TURTLES IN MY NAVEL, v.2.0

Like a dense bush in ones own backyard, my navel is a bit of a familiar mystery. Let's face it, how often do you peek inside your navel? Not very often. And the mysteries our navels hold sometimes could be quite puzzling. For instance, the other day I found a wad of red lint hiding inside my navel. Not that there's plenty of room to hide there - I'm lucky to sport one of those perfectly round navels; not too shallow, not too deep; with a flat - one might even say "boring" - even bottom.

And so I found a wad of red lint floating there seemingly in mid air. Red, being my favorite color, would not be surprising on its own, but I haven't been wearing anything red in quite some time and I shower regularly. So you should understand my puzzlement when I discovered that tiny red cloud hovering inside my navel. Where did it come from? What winds blew it into the well of my perfectly round navel? That's all I could think about for that entire day.

This morning, however, there was not a cloud in my navel. Instead, two fairly old turtles were having an argument there. The sun just popped up from behind my left breast chasing away the snails of a morning chill by the spreading beams of the early fall warmth. I felt pretty hungry and the turtles in my navel were getting louder and louder: "It's not my turn to take out the trash," hissed the shorter scruffy looking one, "why do you insist that it is?" "Because it's always your turn, you lazy git," - calmly replied the slim one. They were having this argument almost every morning.

## Description of the couple. How they met, dated and got married.

Greg - that was the name of the scruffy turtle - and Patricia - his slim wife - were in their early one-hundreds and they were married for the larger portion of their lives. <More about the couple…>

### Greg's story
### Patricia's story

## Continuation of the argument
### Description of the breakfast
### Why do they argue

Greg and Patricia are in their late sixties and have lived together for at least forty years. This routine is so efficient by now that it doesn't distract them from their other morning rituals. Patricia is chopping mushrooms on their tiny kitchen table, precariously perched on the northern slope of my navel, while Greg is sitting at the opposite side of the table hiding behind his newspaper. Across the navel, in a big greasy wok snails are sizzling with anticipation. "So, do you want your breakfast or not?" – Patricia is unrelenting and Greg is getting up to take out the trash.

## Wrap up

I'm bored with their argument, so I get out of bed and head to the kitchen too. It's a pancakes kind of morning.
 