# 300 words for 2013-04-09

The dust particles are shining brightly in the early morning sun peeking through my window, making my room feel like a study of a medieval monk, carefully copying ancient manuscripts while the rays of light are hitting the paper at just the right angle. Down below, in the valley, the water of the bay is sparkling in the sun -  a rare morning with no fog.

I love looking at the bay in the morning. The sun is flattening the perspective. Which, combined with the birds’ singing creates a very cozy atmosphere. And regardless of how many hours I slept - not very many lately - the view makes me feel content and particularly satisfied with my life.

My son is playing in the room. We just returned from our vacation in Italy and are still getting over our jet lag. So by now we have been up for at least three hours, ate our breakfast, tidied up the kitchen and are ready to embark on whatever adventures are awaiting us today. Adrienne is at the gym and so this hour and a half, my son and I are just hanging out, each doing our own thing - Max chasing the dog and me enjoying the sun and putting it all "on paper". Max from time to time runs up to me for a quick snuggle and then a second later zips away recharged. I love these brief and rare moments of tenderness.

But the quiet time is over - Max is hungry and demands attention. And so I'm back to my parental chores until Adrienne come back from the gym and then off to work, where the things are heating up quickly - it's going to be a busy year!