---
title: Camping with the baby, take 1
layout: post
comments: true
summary: Some tips for comping with the baby.
tags: [camping,children,trip-report]
---

We took our String Bean camping for the first time a couple of weeks
ago, this article is a short account of what worked and what didn’t.

I combed the web for tips on camping with an infant a couple of weeks
before the trip and based on what I found, I put together an
[infant-specific camping packing
list](http://www.packwhiz.com/l/12317763/camping-with-an-infant). Since
then, I added a couple of extra items to the list, but for the most part
it was pretty spot-on.

### What worked well

**Disposable bottle liners.** These things worked extremely well. I
couldn’t imagine washing the bottles after each meal even with the
bathroom just a few strides away. And in the backcountry, that would be
even more problematic. With liners, you just trash the liner, replace
the nipple with the fresh one and put the used one in a ziplock. Then at
the end of the day, boil used nipples and voila - they are ready to be
used again next day.

**Pop-up tent.** We own a Kidco Peapod and it worked pretty well for us.
But we would never leave our child unattended in that tent due to a
recent [infant
death](http://www.amazon.com/gp/cdp/member-reviews/A1BD5G9DP7PKLG/ref=cm_pdp_rev_more?ie=UTF8&sort_by=MostRecentReview#R27EAWSOT40M2Z).

### What could have worked better

**Tent.** Crawling on elbows and knees inside our 3-person backpacking
tent while holding the Bean was not fun. It’s not terrible, but for car
camping outings we bought a proper family size tent immediately after
returning from this trip.

### What didn’t work at all

**Sleeping.** Originally, we planned to put a mattress from Bean’s
co-sleeper in between us atop our two-person sleeping bag. That did not
work *at all* - there was not enough room left inside the bag for two
people. So we had to separate the sleeping bag into two and lay the
co-sleeper mattress on a sleeping pad between us. That worked fairly
well and we are planning to stick with this method for our next trip.

### What we didn’t end up using

**Umbrella.** We camped in a shady spot and it hasn’t rained, so we did
not need to use an umbrella. But I do still believe that it’s a good sun
or rain protection for the Bean.

**Stroller.** I don’t believe we even packed the stroller for this trip.
We will, however, bring it on our next trip. It’s one of the B.O.B.’s,
with great suspension, an adapter for the infant car seat and excellent
all-terrain wheels. It would probably work well on longer approaches
with lots of climbing gear in both our packs. But we’ll see if it
actually works in a couple of days when we camp in Yosemite.

### What we wish we brought along

**Battery-operated baby monitor.** The first night of camping I rocked
the Bean to sleep, put him in the tent, zipped it up, made two steps
away and suddenly realized that there’s no way I’m going to hear him cry
if he wakes up - went back and picked him up from the tent. A monitor
would have been real handy.
