Title: A perfect feed reader
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Tue, 15 Nov 2005 18:32:54 +0000

\
Why email paradigm doesn't work for a feed reader? What will work? (Must
I always add "for me"?)\

\
First of all, there's simply too many articles in my feed reader to read
them all. And thus to stay on top of my reading list I need my feed
reader to become a tool which would help me decide what to read first
and what to skip all together.\

\
Second, I do not sort my mail in the same way I sort my feeds. With
email most of the time it is about action: this email requires immediate
reply, here my boss is asking me to write a project plan, that one I'll
put away and will follow-up on it later when I have more information,
etc. Whereas with feeds everything is about attention: I like this topic
and I want to read more on it, that author is funny and I'd like to
check out her other blogs, etc.\

\
For a mail client simple filters work just fine: if this message is
related to project A and I need to act upon it sometime later today I'll
move it to a folder named 'Project A' and assign an 'Action' tag to it â€“
my mail client can do it semi-automatically with some very simple
filters. Feeds require a radically different approach. Labeling articles
based simply on their content is not going to work. In my case, for
example, I have close to half a thousand feeds that I subscribe to. I do
not read all of them (it's impossible!), but I want to stay subscribed
and I don't want to miss that rare moment when something
interesting/important appears in the feed. Also, I don't want to waste
my time on articles that just repeat something I have read about
elsewhere and which do not add anything significant to the topic. In the
absence of better tools I group and shuffle feeds manually, but I cannot
do that on the article level.\

\
Is it possible? [SearchFox](http://searchfox.com/) is just one example
of what could be done in this area. (I am not using it for more than
just to make sure that there is hope as I'd like it to do much more than
it does and I am not sure a web-based client is the right way to go.)
But I don't see other feed readers integrating attention management into
them and I don't hear anyone talking about it anymore. Is it because
something is cooking? I really hope so!\

\
**Update:** There's been some activity in the Attention area lately. You
can read more about it on Steve Gillmor's and Michael Vizard's
[AttentionTech blog](http://attentiontech.podshow.com/).\

\

