Title: Interviewing Engineers
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Tue, 21 Aug 2012 19:41:50 +0000

I've been on both sides of the technical interview process for over two
decades now - most recently just a couple of weeks ago - and I have a
few thoughts I wanted to share.

## Tips for the interviewEE

**Talk** Talk a lot and do not stop. The more you talk, the more likely
it is you're talking about something you're very familiar with and the
less time the interviewER has to quiz you about things you know nothing
about.

But do not ramble. Rambling looks bad. Rambling means you're not talking
about the topics you're familiar with and is usually interrupted with
requests for clarification from the interiviewER ("— What the heck are
you talking about, man?")

**Practice** Of course, if you want to be able to talk for hours about
your favorite topics, you'll need to practice a lot. Have a friendly
banter with colleagues, go to conferences and read a lot.

If you're going to be writing code on the whiteboard, you should
practice that too. It's different from coding on a computer, so a little
bit of practice will help.

**Be honest** If your interviewER is good, she won't let you talk about
your favorite topics unchecked. Sooner or later you'll be asked a
question you don't know the answer to. Be honest and say so. Trust me,
if your interviewER is asking you a question, she most probably knows
the subject pretty well and will be able to tell whether you're winging
it. Just say — "I don't know the answer to this question, but…"

**Think** "…but let me think for a second and see if I can come up with
an answer."

There is a tendency to treat a technical interview as a quiz: "have you
ever used blah?", "what's the system call for blah?" Sure, some
companies and interviewERs do that, but you probably don't want to work
for them anyway. And the ability to come up with an answer to a novel
problem is far more valuable than having a previous experience with a
particular technology (that is probably going to be obsolete in a couple
of years anyway).

Don't be a fool, though, and learn the basics well. What's the Big-O of
the quick-sort? Worst case? Can you sort a sequence in O(n) time?

## Tips for the interviewER

**Be nice** The purpose of the technical interview is not to show your
superiority, it's to assess the skills of the person you're
interviewing. If the job will require writing code under the gun, then
by all means, stress and intimidate the interviewEE. Otherwise, make
every effort to create a relaxing and pleasant atmosphere. Stress
narrows your vision, creativity requires a playful and relaxed
atmosphere. Being an interviewEE is a stressful job as it is, don't make
it worse.

**Be prepared** So often companies have no clear understanding of the
requirements for the position they are trying to fill. Everybody suffers
as a result. The interviewERs are confused about what to ask and how to
asses the skills ("He has no idea what `if [[ $? -eq 0 ]]` means, we
can't hire him for the Junior Visual Basic position!"). The interviewEEs
get random, disjointed and sometimes repeating questions.

Talk to other interviewERs ahead of time, make sure you have a common
strategy for the interview.

Interviewing people is a skill. Just because you're an awesome engineer
yourself, does not mean you know how to assess other engineers'
abilities. Read a book, take a class. Don't try to wing it - it's
disrespectful to everybody involved and leads to poor results.

The best (both challenging and rewarding) technical interview I've ever
had was at Amazon. It was a full-day interview - I've seen at least six
people that day. And each next interviewER was building on the subjects
covered by the previous interviewERs. There was some designing, some
coding, and a lot of talking about it all.

**Listen** Do not interrupt unless to ask for clarifications. Give
interviewEE a chance to explain themselves. If it sounds like the
interviewEE is going in the wrong direction or you're not sure you
understand the answer (or even think the answer is incorrect) - ask a
clarifying question, do not assume the worst automatically. Ask
questions with the intention of understanding, not sinking the
interviewEE.

**Keep an open mind** Would you rather have a team of engineers with
diverse experience, combined covering a vast amount of knowledge? Or
would you prefer to work with a bunch of clones of yourself? Do not
structure your interview as a quiz. Allow an interviewEE to show you
what they've got. They might not have an answer to the exact question
you're asking, but maybe they have a better solution. Talk about things,
see how your interviewEE thinks. Hire a team member, not an automaton
capable of performing a predefined limited number of tasks.
