Title: Leaving
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Wed, 22 Sep 2010 24:51:41 +0000

Leaving is never easy. Be it leaving your parents’ house to go to
college, or leaving a city your grew up in. It’s not easy to leave a
girlfriend of 1 year or a spouse of 11. And it’s not easy to move to
another country on the opposite side of the globe, with the different
language, customs and culture. Leaving is hard and it hurts.

Sometimes it’s bittersweet - it’s the end of something good, but also
the beginning of something better. Though regardless of whether it was
good or bad, it takes time to adjust to your new life. Time heals all
wounds, they say - I suppose it’s true to a degree. But it always takes
work to truly move on. If you’re lucky, all you need is a good song -
“Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da” helped me get over a break up with my girlfriend in
college. “Life goes on, bra,” I reminded myself, when my spirits took a
steep dive. Other times you will go through a painful withdrawal -
crying feats and everything.

It doesn’t matter if the thing you are moving away from was bad and
leaving feels more like escape - emigrating from a poor country or
divorcing an abusive husband - what you often leave behind and have to
mourn for properly is a dream that will never become a reality. Not in
that country or with that person, anyway. You might have spent years
working on your dream and now it’s time to move on.

But the new life presents its own challenges. You might find yourself
trying to fit your old square ways in your new round life. Keeping an
open mind is crucial.

And if you’re depressed and can’t see the obvious? Ask for help. A
friend who would listen or a professional therapist - if you think you
need help, ask for it - that’s what friends are for.
