Title: MacHeist
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Fri, 15 Dec 2006 11:53:57 +0000

[MacHeist](http://macheist.com/) is ending this week and so far it
generated over \$80K for charity and it looks like they will be able to
meet their goal of \$100K. But it also generated [quite a
stir](http://www.technorati.com/search/MacHeist) in the independent Mac
developer community. Not surprisingly, developers are afraid that this
campaign that targets cheapsters will hurt the perceived value of the
Mac software.

\

Guys, calm down! You attribute way to much power to those desperate
blokes. It would have been quite spectacular if they did posses the
power to influence the market in such titanic proportions, but they
don't. They are just trying to come up with an interesting marketing
gimmick (something that is rarely successful more than once). And they
chose to target cheapsters because it is easy - not the strategy I would
choose for my marketing campaign, but is a valid strategy nonetheless.
Could it hurt the future sales of those involved? Absolutely it could.
(It could also help the sales. It depends on so many things...) But
there's absolutely no danger to those not participating in this
campaign. You see, just because Walmart is selling jeans [on the
cheap](http://www.walmart.com/catalog/product.do?product_id=930424)
doesn't mean that [7 For All Mankind](http://www.7forallmankind.com/)
has no chance at selling their's at a [much higher
price](http://www.7forallmankind.com/Flynt_In_Manhattan/pd/np/3/p/1020.html).
Don't target the cheapsters and you'll be fine as far as the perceived
value of your product goes.

\

