Title: Password manager
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Tue, 05 Apr 2005 21:28:57 +0000

\
What's the best password manager out there? [Passwords
Plus](http://www.dataviz.com/products/passwordsplus/) from
[DataViz](http://www.dataviz.com/), that's what!\

\
I spent a lot of time and effort trying to find a suitable
cross-platform password manager and I believe my search is finally over.
Passwords Plus is a nice and simple (very simple!) application that runs
either on Mac OS or Windows and can be sync'ed with Palm OS or Pocket PC
(as of right now Pocket PC syncs with Windows only). You can have up to
ten custom-named fields in each record, and when you create a new item
you are presented with a list of customizable templates, so that you
don't have to type the same field names over and over again. There's the
master password you have to enter when you launch the application, and
the program locks itself after a user-defined period of inactivity.\

\
Of course, Passwords Plus allows you to import your passwords from a
dozen of other password managers, but the program I was using before did
not have any export feature, so I had to type in by hand a couple of
hundreds passwords and PINs, credit card numbers, bank accounts, serial
numbers, you name it. Thankfully, for the last time, because Passwords
Plus will not tie you down - just export your stuff to a .csv file and
do what you please with it!\

\
I noticed only one tiny problem - I deleted a category from the middle
of the list and it messed up all category assignments - silly bug, I am
sure they will fix it in the next build. So be warned, but do not let it
stop you from downloading this awesome application.\

\

