Title: Programmer's Productivity
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Thu, 18 Dec 2003 24:00:35 +0000

Yesterday I spent twelve hours hunting down a most bizarre bug. I
flipped through literally thousands of lines of code, I set dozens of
breakpoints only to realize that those places were being hit hundreds of
times, and it is virtually impossible to debug it that way. I tried
everything I could think of, but nothing helped and by the end of the
day I was totally exhausted and pretty much ready to choke somebody. I
made no progress whatsoever!

\

So, at about 8 p.m. I decided to take a break. I stopped the hunt,
prepared myself a tiny cup of light and at the same time velvety
espresso made of South American premium Arabica beans, made myself
comfortable, took a big sip of coffee and let my mind wander...

\

*...Ecstatic feelings started filling up my heart, the time paused,
allowing me to experience every bit of the surrounding reality in vivid
intricacy. I could touch the sound waves coming from two fans in my
computer, I could taste every single red photon spitted out by the
stupid optical mouse...*

\

I shook my head (nice coffee!) and, oh miracle, I spotted the defective
piece of code in my mind. I immediately jumped to the computer, grabbed
the keyboard and started typing... In a few seconds the bug was gone -
one line of code did it. **That was the only line of code I managed to
write in a whole long day!**

\

Now tell me, what is the measure of a programmer's productivity!?
Definitely not the number of lines of code written per day! In fact, I
think those programmers are really productive whose ratio between added
and removed code is approaching zero.

\

