Title: RSS in the Palm of Your Hand
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Thu, 11 Mar 2004 02:09:02 +0000

[Palm Infocenter](http://www.palminfocenter.com) posted a tiny little
[review](http://www.palminfocenter.com/view_story.asp?ID=6595 "RSS Syndication Tools for the Palm OS")
of tools you can use to read RSS newsfeeds on the Palm.

\

**Online Readers**\
\
I was using [Hand/RSS](http://standalone.com/palmos/hand_rss/) since the
very first day they hit the market. Overall, it is a nice application
and it performs its basic functions nearly flawlessly. But if you happen
to have more than just a few feeds on your list and
subscribe/unsubscribe often - help you god with managing all that. The
subscriptions dialog is barely useful. Due to the fact that it shows
only URLs, all you can see is just a bunch of
"...logger.com/xml/rss.xml" strings. Not really helpful! Of course, you
can tap on the line to see the details, but to do so just in order to
decide which feeds to update, is a real pain. Guys from [Stand
Alone](http://www.standalone.com/) sent me a version supporting OPML
import (thanks, fellas!) and it did make the whole process a bit easier,
but I still had to edit my OPML files manually for them to be imported
correctly.

\

People who wrote [Ticker](http://palminfocenter.palmgear.com/?xyz=49996)
obviously had too much free time on their hands and couldn't think of a
good thing to do with it. As a consequence, I don't know what good
things I could do with their program.

\

Another choice that was not mentioned in the article is the [Bloglines
Mobile](http://bloglines.com/mobile/). It's a version of
[Bloglines](http://bloglines.com) (web-based news aggregator) optimized
for smaller browsers. I often use it when I lie down on the couch and
don't feel like holding a laptop (which, by the way, gets quite warm
after a few hours of browsing).

\

**Offline Readers**\
\
After many months of experimenting with different choices I ended up
using (almost exclusively) [JPluck X](http://jpluck.sourceforge.net/) in
conjunction with the good ol' [Plucker](http://www.plkr.org/). You
cannot update the feeds on the go (that's why I still have Hand/RSS
hanging around), but it is a lot more manageable, and Plucker as a
reader is superior to that of the Hand/RSS. Plus, with these tools you
can read sites that do not have RSS feeds.

\

I don't have personal experience with [News Mac
3](http://www.thinkmac.co.uk/newsmac/index.html), but I guess, combined
with [iSilo](http://www.isilo.com/), it's not much different from the
previous set.

\

**Conclusion**\
\
If you have a good stable internet connection on your PDA, I'd recommend
pointing your browser to [Bloglines
Mobile](http://bloglines.com/mobile/) for the best reading experience.
If you want to download newsfeeds wirelessly and then read them offline,
go with [Hand/RSS](http://standalone.com/palmos/hand_rss/). If you don't
have internet on your PDA or prefer using an offline aggregator for some
other reasons, [JPluck X](http://jpluck.sourceforge.net/) +
[Plucker](http://www.plkr.org/) is the way to go.

\

*Update: Hand/RSS does show feed titles in the Subscriptions dialog.
I'll check the OPML import feature tonight to see if I was wrong about
the compatibility issue as well.*

\

