Title: Simplicity vs Complexity
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Sat, 10 Dec 2005 15:31:15 +0000

\
The other day, while a bunch of us were out drinking beer, a friend of
mine slipped a phrase about how he didn't agree with the tendency of
dumbing things down for all sorts of users (or something to that
effect). Because he is a smart fellow, I immediately dismissed the urge
to call him stupid :-) and instead put the thought on the back-burner
where it has been slowly simmering ever since.\

\
Just now I remembered that a few weeks back I had a discussion of this
very topic with my former co-worker. My own point at that time was very
much along the same lines. Specifically, that although, on one hand, I
love the fact that I don't have to be constantly peering into the map
fearing that I'll miss my turn while driving—we have signs on every turn
(or in some cases onboard navigation systems) telling us what to do
next, but on the other hand, I am afraid these everyday conveniences
take away something important from us. They rid us of that invaluable
ordeal of the raw unprocessed life.\

\
Take penicillin (my favorite metaphor for progress)—humans sure do live
longer, but we also have even more illnesses that we cannot cure now.
Are we sure that by letting the drug help us fight the illness we
haven't robbed our bodies of the chance to prepare itself for the fight
against some new quickly mutating virus? Seemingly, by "simplifying" our
lives we actually make them more difficult! How do we avoid this
downward spiral? How do we make our lives more comfortable but not get
dumber?\

\
I do believe that simplicity is the main tool in this endeavor. Mother
nature (and fellow- humans) will continue to throw new challenges at us.
We want to make sure that our newly developed ways of dealing with those
challenges are simple enough to be easily reproduced. We should learn to
depend on our ways more than we depend on our tools. It is pathetic when
a grown man, stranded in the bushes, cannot open a can without a
can-opener.\

\
But what is it that I'm really talking about? I know computers, let's
talk about computers. Take your average office application—MS Word. How
many features does Word have? How many of its features do you personally
know and use? Do you use fields or forms? Cross-references? Watermarks?
How about AutoSummarize (and why the hell is it spelled like this?),
Merge Documents? How many of you even used your own custom styles? Does
all this make your writing easier? I don't know about you, but I find
myself using TeX more and more often if I need to write a paper. I find
TeX to be easier than Word, how about that!? And Word—with all its
WISIWIG and whatnot—is supposed to make writing easier!\

\
Now let's look at your VCR (if you still have one). How many features
does it have, how many of them do you use? Does it have VCR Plus+? Most
probably it does because "VCR Plus+ is available in all major brands of
VCRs," according to TVGuide.com. Do you know what it does? Well, me too.
But do you actually use this feature? I don't, and I have very little
desire to even try. I'm looking at the remote now and here are some of
the buttons I am noticing: C/A skip, M/A skip, SAP, ADD/DLT—what the
hell are these for?! Does it make me think harder? I don't think so, I
think this unnecessary complexity is exactly why I feel a certain
dumbness when I try to program my VCR—a dumbness of whoever designed
this uninspiring UI.\

\
So, what do you think? Simple of complex?\

\

