Title: Speech/voice recognition
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Tue, 29 Nov 2005 12:31:56 +0000

\
A lot of folks are [skeptical about the future of
speech](http://accordionguy.blogware.com/blog/_archives/2005/11/15/1406852.html)
as a computer interface and they even try to think of what will [replace
the good ol'
mouse](http://www.applematters.com/index.php/section/comments/what_is_the_next_user_interface/).
And although I agree with them in certain cases (excessive chatter in
the workplace being the biggest bummer), I believe they are missing the
point here. First of all, it is important to note that natural
language-based interface is a broader concept and [doesn't have to
involve voicing the
commands](/2005/08/nonacoustic_speech_detection.html). Second, your
computer system (it could be something as small as your mobile phone)
doesn't have to listen to your commands all the time—you push the button
and *then* you speak your command or you receive the call and *then* you
say "busy" or "hello". Your Smart House doesn't have to listen to you
all the time in every single corner of your mansion—you push the button
on the remote and speak into the tiny microphone imbedded into the
remote. Your car doesn't have to listen to you all the time—just push
the button on the steering wheel and say "directions". And that's all
been done already and it's working.\

\
On the other hand, how do you know when to listen? You detect some
motion towards you, someone calls your name or turns their head in your
direction, you hear a pitch and/or amplitude increase in their voice,
etc. These are all the "buttons" that other people push to attract our
attention before they start speaking to us. Sometimes they fail—I am
sure all of you had this experience when someone talks to you and you do
not recognize the fact immediately and when you finally do it's too late
and you have to ask them: "are you talking to me, could you repeat that
please?" So, my point is that pretty soon computers will come to be just
a little bit better at reading those cues and speech recognition will
become ubiquitous. These things don't have to be complicated to be
useful.\

\

