Title: Taxonomy
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Fri, 04 Feb 2005 24:40:48 +0000

\
Everybody seems to be talking about taxonomies these days. Not that I
have anything new to say - I know about the topic no more than the next
guy - but in my everlasting quest for better tags I keep bumping into a
few questions that I don't see answered anywhere.\

\
Do we need to develop a culture of proper tagging? If yes, what that
culture might look like? Do we even know the answers to these
questions?\

\
I seem to be having two different approaches to tagging. Subconsciously
I tend to think differently when I post to
[Flickr.com](http://www.flickr.com) than when I post to
[del.icio.us](http://del.icio.us). For example, when I add a [bookmark
to
Conversation](http://homepage.mac.com/philrobin/conversation/index.html)
- an IRC client for the Mac OS X - I use the following tags:
"[mac](http://del.icio.us/tag/mac)",
"[internet](http://del.icio.us/tag/internet)",
"[communication](http://del.icio.us/tag/communication)",
"[tool](http://del.icio.us/tag/tool)". In other words I try to stay as
concise and to be as generic as possible. Probably, because I want to
have a relatively small and manageable list of tags, so that the next
time I need a list of resources related to programming for Mac, I could
just type in "[mac programming](http://del.icio.us/tag/mac+programming)"
and – voilà! – I have it. Sketchy, but you probably get the idea.\

\
On the other hand, when I post a picture of [me
snorkeling](http://www.flickr.com/photos/sudarkoff/2395466/ "Self portrait on Flickr.com")
to [Flickr.com](http://www.flickr.com), I let my imagination loose and
put down almost every possible keyword that describes the tiniest of the
details of the image as well as the story behind it:
"[vacation](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/vacation)",
"[snorkeling](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/snorkeling)",
"[portrait](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/portrait)",
"[diving](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/diving)",
"[water](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/water)",
"[yellow](http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/yellow)", etc. I figure, if
I want to capture the meaning (other than what you can immediately see
in the picture) I've got to be elaborate about it.\

\
Finally, how do we better utilize this sudden outburst of information?
How do we make it work for regular chaps like myself? Doing
"[tag:a-word](http://www.technorati.com/tag/a-word)" search on
[Technorati.com](http://technorati.com), although entertaining at times,
doesn't seem to do the job yet. It yields some interesting results but I
have a feeling that we are missing on a much bigger picture here.
Somewhere in that plethora of metadata lies the truth, but it's not in
the form of a single tag. We definitely need to look at the collective
dance of words and how they interconnect with each other.\

\
{[taxonomy](http://technorati.com/tag/taxonomy),
[tags](http://technorati.com/tag/tags),
[metadata](http://technorati.com/tag/metadata)}\

\

