Title: TextMate to go Leopard-only
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Sun, 19 Nov 2006 24:19:51 +0000

The blogosphere is abuzz over Allan Odgaard's
[announcement](http://macromates.com/blog/archives/2006/11/09/20-will-require-leopard/)
that most likely TextMate 2.0 will be Leopard-only.
[Everyone](http://technorati.com/search/macromates.com%2Fblog%2Farchives%2F2006%2F11%2F09%2F20-will-require-leopard%2F)
and their monkey has an opinion. I promise mine will be short and
irrelevant.

\

Allan says that 90% of his users are early adopters. He says that the
upgrade is free so he will not be losing any money by abandoning the
remaining 10%. Also, by going Leopard-only he will be able to simplify
the code, make it more robust by using garbage collection and whatnot,
and overall make it worthwhile for those that do upgrade.

\

As a software developer I can totally understand his move. It is no fun
to support legacy crap -- the shiny new things that Leopard offers are
not only tastier to chew on, they also make our code prettier (and
prettier means better in all practical terms). Every single argument is
logically sound and makes me nod in agreement. Too bad the situation has
nothing to do with logic.

\

The people using your software have rights (even if they didn't pay for
the software). Of course, it is the kind of right that they cannot
defend in court. But users believe in those rights and that is all that
matters. It is not even about fairness -- it's about feelings and
feelings will be hurt. Users will retaliate and you better be damn sure
your brand is capable of sustaining the punch.

\

That said, I do believe that now is the best time to piss off a few
users in favor of the long-term benefits. Come on, it's 2.0 we are
talking about, we all know that it takes three major releases for any
software to mature. Even Allan tells us that his users are early
adopters. It means that he is yet to [cross the
chasm](http://www.amazon.com/Crossing-Chasm-Geoffrey-Moore/dp/0060517123)
of obscurity. And why not take the advantage of the situation and shed
some weight in preparation for the leap?

\

So, does Allan have the right to abandon 10% of his users? Hell yeah! Do
users have the right to complain? Hell yeah! Is it going to work out
just fine? We shall live and see.

\

