Title: Why I think Thinking Weeks are stupid
Author: George Sudarkoff
Date: Tue, 26 Jul 2005 10:01:31 +0000

About.com has an
[article](http://humanresources.about.com/od/motivationsucces3/a/learn_read.htm)
up about how Bill Gates of Microsoft collects the papers from his
employees, reads and thinks on them and answers to their respectful
authors (or the whole company, I guess, if the idea is particularly
good) during his Thinking Week twice a year. Not even family friends
allowed to interrupt the Master. I think it's bullshit!

\

First of all, twice a year? Are you kidding me?! Why not once a decade?
After all, thinking is pretty darn difficult and one needs time to
recuperate! Second of all, it doesn't matter how smart a person might
be, one should be pretty ignorant and self-absorbed to think that he
could go through some 100 papers a week, stay focused during the
process, recognize opportunities and produce conscious business
decisions **on his own**!

\

The article then continues with Ten Commandments or as they call it --
"Ten Thinking and Dreaming Exercises for Creativity and Innovation".
Some of them make sense -- read a lot of non-fiction, write down your
thoughts, take time to reflect. And some of them are pretty laughable --
create "idea files" in most folders in your computer.

\

What I would do differently? Immitating Microsoft's own Steve Ballmer --
conversations, conversations, conversations! Create online forums, IM
and/or IRC chat-rooms, mailling lists, wikis, blogs, podcasts and
whatnot for employees to communicate their ideas and discuss them
**amongst themselves**. Encourage people to hang out in those media to
chat and reflect **publicly** -- they are going to read blogs and
exchange messages on company's time anyway, so why not let them give
something back in return? And finally, **listen** and **participate** in
those discussions and **delegate** big chunks of decision making to your
employees, who are in many cases smarter and more experienced than you
are and are **much closer** to your customers.

\

